### J. Matthew Myers
### Professor Fred Annexstein
### CS 5001
### 14 September, 2024
# Individual Capstone Assessment
The senior design project my group is taking on is, in short, a web scraper. This product will gather data on various products from online retailer sites. The nature of this data will be primarily engineering-focused, as this product will be used by business clients wishing to compare their products to those of their competitors. This will aid in evaluating their own ongoing projects and overall increase the innovation inherent to competition. This project is a continuation of a co-op project for one of our team members, and will be funded by Midea. As such, one of the primary goals of the project is to improve on the existing solution, and to generalize it beyond being applicable to only one company.

I expect that this project will call on knowledge developed through many of the courses in the CS curriculum. We will need to apply our knowledge from Data Structures (CS 2028C) to effectively work with the data that we gather. We might also utilize our understanding of artificial intelligence from AI Principles and Applications (CS 4033) as we work to stabilize the product to handle unpredictable website changes. I anticipate we will also rely on the full-stack development and security experience I gained in Web Applications Programming and Hacking (EECE 4005), as we will be structuring this product as a web application. We will also need to use our knowledge of databases from Database Design and Development (CS 4092) to store product data on the backend. Additionally, we will rely on the skills gained in Programming Languages (CS 3003) to make informed decisions regarding our implementation choices. One of the most important courses we will rely on is Computer Networks (CS 4065) due to the experience we gained in building networked applications.

My co-op experiences will also guide my experience with this project. In my first rotation with Lexmark International as a Firmware Security Intern, I gained valuable experience working with others on projects using Agile the agile methodology. I also got to work with Git in an enterprise environment, which is a skill I have relied on ever since. My second rotation, in the same company and role as my first, gave me extensive experience with the Python programming language, which will be good to have since it is our current top-choice for our backend implementation. My third rotation, which was at SHP as a Software Engineering Co-op, gave me experience with full stack development, continuous integration and continuous deployment. My fourth rotation, which was again at SHP as a Software Engineering Co-op, gave me further experience with software engineering. I also had the opportunity to work with Python again, which will be useful to our team.

I am motivated to work on this project because I believe it is an opportunity to help engineers and business leaders engage with their peers more competitively. I am excited to work on this project because it is a chance to develop something commercially viable without needing to handle the development costs, as we have received approval from Midea to continue developing the product with their financial support. This opportunity is exceptionally rare, from what I have observed in the sentiments of the software engineering community at large. The rarity of this chance will also serve to motivate me to work hard on this project so that it might be commercially viable by the end of development in May. Our approach to designing a solution is to explore the use cases for our product, the pain points with existing solutions, and the ways we can improve what already exists. We will also take advantage of our advisor in Midea, who can help us better understand the userbase for this project.

I expect that we will have a functional utility by the end of the project which is easy for engineers and business leaders alike to make effective use of. My team will measure contributions by assigning values to each of the tasks we determine in our weekly meetings. Members of the team will be able to evaluate their own contributions by comparing the sum of all their allotted task-values with the sum of their completed task-values for the given sprint. Doing this will give us the opportunity to reach out to each other for help if we need it so that no team member feels left behind or overburdened. By the end of the project, we should each be able to determine our own success by evaluating our ongoing contributions against the total sum of all proposed and valued ideas for the entire project against those which we are able to complete by the end. I would say that we will have done a good job on the project if we are able to achieve 80% or higher of what we set out to do.